7. Sub junior school
Your club will have a sub junior school. This is where young players are coached. The juniors are young players with too little experience or skills to play in official matches.

Allocation of Places.

For your school you should allocate a set number of places some of which may be occupied by your juniors and some may be vacant to allow new juniors to come to the school. Every place generates some expenses in a weekly basis (see chapter 18). The maximum number of places that could be allocated is 30. Every week new players may join the school, provided there are some vacant places. The number of new players joining the school in a week is between 0 to a maximum of 6. If the free places are not enough to allocate the applicants, some of them will be turned down, but you will never know who was rejected…They could have been a useless youth or a potential star for your team.

Your Junior Players

Junior players will stay in the school a number of weeks to be coached. Within the junior school you can see the preferred position of a player (outfield or goalkeeper), age, general skill level which is estimated by your junior coach, and the number of weeks he will stay in the school, but you don't see individual skills as they remain hidden. If you want to know approximately the skills distribution before the junior is promoted, you will have to play him in junior matches, and verify his aptitude on various positions. When the junior is ready to join the first team, you can promote them to the first team, where you will be able to see exactly what skills the player possesses.

The Juniors’ Coach

You need to assign a youth coach to ensure that your juniors are trained. His general appraisal will determine how quickly the juniors will improve their skills. He will also decide when a player is ready for testing in the first team line-up. Your junior coach’s general skill decides on how accurately the general skill of each junior is estimated. The higher the coach level, the more exact the junior level determined. Also, the more matches your junior plays, the more adequately the coach knows his total skill and shows it to you.

Training

The distribution of individual skills is set for each junior when he comes to your junior team; each individual skill grows proportionally with the overall skill when your junior trains each week. Their talent and the coaches general efficiency determine how fast they develop and whether they will be valuable players after leaving the school. Whether a junior plays or not in a match does not affect his training - he always will get full training.

The Juniors’ Matches.

The juniors matches are alike the senior matches with the same rules. The players use their hidden skills to play but their pace is slightly incremented to make the matches more entertaining. Also they play as his form is at superdivine level. Juniors cannot be injured after the match i.e. if they are injured during the game they will make a speedy recovery directly after the game is finished. Yellow/Red cards and goals are not recorded either.

League System

A new junior team always joins the lowest division in the country, irrespective of the division the senior club is playing in. Junior league levels is exactly the same number as the number of senior leagues. The junior divisions are not divided into 8 team leagues - all teams from each junior division level compete in same league (so same league table). Every week the rounds are generated randomly. The league table is divided in half, top half teams play each other, lower half league teams also play each other. The team who plays home is decided randomly, and the tickets income is entirely given to the home team. In the lower league there is a potential where there is an odd number of teams, so the same team may not get a match in the next round. This is counted and therefore if you find your team with a free week you will definitely have a game the following week. Junior league matches do not affect your team ranking, however, it does affect supporters mood, but several times less than a friendly senior match. You can also expect a lot less supporters turning up to the games in comparison to your senior matches.

Promotion And Relegation

Each junior season has 14 rounds, just like the senior teams season. After all the rounds are played the top junior teams automatically qualify to higher league. The maximum size of each junior division is the equivalent of the senior division. The number of teams promoted from and relegated to a lower division is always 50% of the maximum size of the division. However if the division is not filled, the number of teams relegated would be as small as possible
For example, if there are 32 teams in IInd league, 16 team are relegated and 16 can be promoted from lower division. But if in the IInd league there are only 20 teams, so 4 teams are relegated and 16 teams are promoted from IIIrd (4 teams in place of relegated teams and 12 teams on free places).

If a junior team gives walkover two weeks in a row, it will be removed from the junior league.
